[INTERNAL] Add Workspace, FileSystem documentation page (#746)
SAP/ui5-tooling: docs/pages/Workspace.md

# UI5 Workspaces

!!! warning
    **UI5 Workspaces is a feature currently in development.** It is not part of any UI5 Tooling release and therefore cannot be used yet.  

!!! example
    ```yaml title="ui5-workspace.yaml"
    specVersion: workspace/1.0
    metadata:
        name: default
    dependencyManagement:
   	    resolutions:
       	    - path: ../heavy.library
    ```

## General Concept

> UI5 Workspaces can be used to create a personalized local development environment for a UI5 Project. They allow to use UI5 dependencies from local directories without the need to use the link features of package managers like npm. "UI5 dependencies" generally refers to projects that have a `ui5.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UI5 Workspaces can be used to create a personalized local development environment for a UI5 project. They allow to use UI5 dependencies from local directories without the need to use the link features of package managers like npm. "UI5 dependencies" generally refers to projects that have a `ui5.yaml`.
```

> Workspaces are typically configured in a `ui5-workspace.yaml` file, located next to the project's `ui5.yaml`. The file can contain one or many workspace configurations, each separated by [three dashes](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#22-structures).

Author: Yes. I'd add that in the next iteration of this documentation

> If there is a workspace configuration named `default`, it will be used automatically. Otherwise the workspace to use needs to be specified using the UI5 CLI parameter `--workspace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a workspace configuration named `default` exists, it will be used automatically; otherwise the workspace must be specified using the UI5 CLI parameter `--workspace`.
```

> Workspaces can only be used in the project that is currently being worked on. I.e. the current root project. Workspace configurations of dependencies are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workspaces can only be used in the project that is currently being worked on, i.e. the current root project. Workspace configurations of dependencies are ignored.
```

This concept has been discussed in an RFC: [RFC 0006 Local Dependency Resolution](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-tooling/blob/rfc-local-dependency-resolution/rfcs/0006-local-dependency-resolution.md)

> 

Reviewer 2: remove duplicate empty row

Author: Done

## Configuration

> A UI5 Workspace configuration must define a specification version (`specVersion`) compatible with its configuration. For more information, see [Workspace Specification Versions](#workspace-specification-versions).

Reviewer 2: is it "an"?
```suggestion
An UI5 Workspace configuration must define a specification version (`specVersion`) compatible with its configuration. For more information, see [Workspace Specification Versions](#workspace-specification-versions).
```

Author: I double checked with Günter: "UI5" starts with a consonant-*sound*, namely "you".

Hence, "A UI5 xyz" is correct.

> A UI5 Workspace configuration must define a specification version (`specVersion`), to which its configuration is compatible to. Also see [Workspace Specification Versions](#workspace-specification-versions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A UI5 Workspace configuration must define a specification version (`specVersion`) compatible with its configuration. For more information, see [Workspace Specification Versions](#workspace-specification-versions).
```

```yaml
specVersion: "workspace/1.0"
```

> ### Metadata

Reviewer 2: here we use uppercase headline "Metadata", below lowercase "name". we should align this

Author: This is aligned with Configuration.md: https://sap.github.io/ui5-tooling/stable/pages/Configuration/#general-configuration

Only single properties are lowercase, all others (typically grouping multiple properties) are treated as "headlines" and written uppercase

!!! example
    ```yaml
    specVersion: workspace/1.0
    metadata:
        name: dolphin
    ```

#### name

> A workspace must have a `name`. This allows for addressing individual workspace configurations, in order to easily switch between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A workspace must have a `name`. This allows to easily switch between individual workspace configurations.
```

> If a workspace is named `default`, **it will be used automatically** unless a different workspace is selected using the `--workspace` CLI parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a workspace is named `default`, **it will be used automatically**, unless a different workspace is selected using the `--workspace` CLI parameter.
```

The `name` property must satisfy the following conditions. They are identical to [project names](./Configuration.md#name):

* Must be at least 3 characters long
* Must be no longer than 50 characters
* Must contain lowercase characters only
* Must contain alphanumeric characters, dash, underscore and period only
    - Exception: The `@` and `/` characters are allowed at certain positions as
      explained below
* Must start with an alphabetic character or an `@` character
* If it starts with an `@` character, it must contain exactly one
  forward slash `/`
    - This is aligned with the npm concept for package scopes, for example `@org/lib.name`

## Dependency Management

> UI5 Workspace configurations allow to influence the dependency resolution when working with a UI5 project.

Reviewer 2: is it "an"?
```suggestion
UI5 Workspace configurations allow to influence the dependency resolution when working with an UI5 project.
```

Author: See above

!!! example
    ```yaml
    specVersion: workspace/1.0
    metadata:
        name: dolphin

> 	dependencyManagement:

Reviewer 2: use white space instead of tab here

Author: Done

   		resolutions:
       		- path: ../light.library
       		- path: ../heavy.library
       		- path: ../test.library
    ```

### Resolutions

```yaml
dependencyManagement:
   	resolutions:
       	- path: ../test.library
```

Resolution paths will be used by UI5 Tooling to look for project dependencies. Any dependencies found via these paths will be used over the ones found with the regular dependency resolution mechanism.

> Paths must point to a directory, which must contain a `package.json`. UI5 Tooling will attempt to find a UI5 Project here. However, if the `package.json` contains a |`workspaces`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces) or equivalent `ui5.workspaces` configuration (which overrules the first), UI5 Tooling will resolve the workspace first and attempt to find UI5 Projects in the configured "npm workspaces". This is commonly used in monorepos. An example can be found in the [OpenUI5 repository](https://github.com/SAP/openui5/blob/b4267488e5d3546de4cd9577ccac4208482d71e0/package.json#L130-L132).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paths must point to a directory containing a `package.json`. UI5 Tooling will attempt to find a UI5 project here. However, if the `package.json` contains a [`workspaces`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces), or equivalently, `ui5.workspaces` configuration (which overrules the first), UI5 Tooling will resolve the workspace first and attempt to find UI5 projects in the configured "npm workspaces". This is commonly used in mono-repos. An example can be found in the [OpenUI5 repository](https://github.com/SAP/openui5/blob/b4267488e5d3546de4cd9577ccac4208482d71e0/package.json#L130-L132).
```

> Paths must be written in POSIX (i.e. using only forward slashes `/` as path segment separators) and must be **relative to the workspace configuration file**. Absolute paths, or paths relative to the home directory (`~`) are not allowed. This is to ensure that workspace configuration files are easy to share and to reduce the chance of them exposing sensitive information like usernames or large directory hierarchies. Symbolic links are followed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paths must be written in POSIX (i.e. using only forward slashes `/` as path segment separators) and must be **relative to the workspace configuration file**. Absolute paths, or paths relative to the home directory (`~`), are not allowed. This is to ensure that workspace configuration files are easy to share and to reduce the chance of them exposing sensitive information like user names or large directory hierarchies. Symbolic links are followed.
```

> Note that this configuration only affects the resolution of dependencies which have been already found during the regular dependency resolution process of a project. For example, if a workspace resolution path resolves to a project that would otherwise not be part of the dependency tree of the current root project, it will not be added to the dependency tree. Also, transitive dependencies of resolved projects are not being followed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this configuration only affects the resolution of dependencies which have already been found during the regular dependency resolution process of a project. For example, if a workspace resolution path resolves to a project that would otherwise not be part of the dependency tree of the current root project, it will not be added to the dependency tree. Also, transitive dependencies of resolved projects are not being followed.
```

## Workspace Specification Versions

> A workspace configuration must define a Specification Version by setting the `specVersion` property. UI5 Tooling uses this information to detect whether the currently installed version is compatible with a workspace's configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A workspace configuration must define a specification version by setting the `specVersion` property. UI5 Tooling uses this information to detect whether the currently installed version is compatible with a workspace's configuration.
```

Reviewer: "Specification Version" ist nur dann ein proper noun, wenn es von einer Versionsnummer gefolgt wird. Wenn mal allgemein über "a specification version" redet, wird es klein geschrieben. (Btw, UI5 Tooling ist ein SAP brand name.)

Author: Actually I have to correct myself here. Günter just informed me that "Specification Version" shall only be used like this if it is followed by a version. So for example "Specification Version 3.0". In all other cases it shall be lowercased. Like in this case 👍

> A workspace configuration must define a Specification Version by setting the `specVersion` property. UI5 Tooling uses this information to detect whether the currently installed version is compatible to a workspace's configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A workspace configuration must define a Specification Version by setting the `specVersion` property. UI5 Tooling uses this information to detect whether the currently installed version is compatible with a workspace's configuration.
```

```yaml
specVersion: "workspace/1.0"
[...]
```

To use new features, a workspace configuration might need to update the `specVersion` property. 

For a given Specification Version "workspace/**MAJOR.MINOR**"" we will increment:

> 1. **MAJOR** when there are breaking changes that might require additional actions by the project maintainer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **MAJOR** when there are breaking changes that might require additional actions by the project's maintainer
```

> 2. **MINOR** when adding new features that are fully backward compatible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **MINOR** when adding new features that are fully backward-compatible
```

All changes are documented below.

### Compatibility Matrix

> Unless otherwise noted in the table below, UI5 Tooling modules are backward compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless otherwise noted in the table below, UI5 Tooling modules are backward-compatible.
```
